you have a r planned in Washington on
September
29th and so would you walk us through
well what let let's start with Who's
involved in exactly what this is and
what's what its aims are and just tell
the whole
story sure and I will say I struggle
with the terminology this to me is
post-political non
ideological yes it's technically an
event but it's an event where we are
hoping it is an event in the same way
that Woodstock was a music festival we
are hoping actually that this is a
moment uh at which we first see a sea
change in the way we conduct ourselves
and interact with each
other I think of it actually as
hopefully the book end that closes the
era that opened with Woodstock and opens
the next era in which we recognize just
how much we have in common just how much
we have to lose if our system fails
which it seems to be doing in front of
our
eyes the rally the event uh is called
rescue the Republic um the idea was
originally framed as save or defend the
West we recognize the uh the crisis is
so so charged within the US that we
decided to focus on the Republic save
the rescue the Republic public first in
order to save the
West um and well you asked who is
involved um I'm going to undoubtedly
forget important people who uh have uh
agreed to come speak on our behalf well
where can people find the full list ah
they can find all the information at
join the resistance.org join the
resistance.org and they can follow us on
Twitter at rescue Republic
okay so if you do Miss anyone that's
where people can go for the additional
information and we'll post that in the
description of the video as well yes
okay so fire away with regards to
participants okay and I I will also say
that um there are people who are in the
process of uh agreeing to come who
aren't listed yet so stay tuned even
even somebody who's not listed today
maybe tomorrow uh so we have Bobby
Kennedy coming to speak we have Tulsi
gabard we have uh Laura Logan Heather
and I will be speaking we have Russell
Brand we have Matt
taiii uh we have uh Jimmy
door um Rob Schneider Rob Schneider uh
we
have several musicians yeah we have
Skillet coming we have five times August
who uh was a tremendous voice during the
covid
madness um we have Tennessee jet coming
uh
deepo boy are they going to play any of
these people going to play as well as
talk to yeah we have uh speakers we have
speakers we have Comedians and we have
musicians great great great that's
that's a good approach that that
multimodal approach it and and that does
make it different than the standard
let's say political rally right and I I
think partly what that does we did that
a bit at this Arc Alliance for respons
citizenship meeting in London you know I
I was very insistent on the musical and
artistic element and I think it's
because the
propositional has to be surrounded by
the imagistic and aesthetic that's more
like the domain of dream right it's like
the way that I look at cognitive
cognitive architecture is that there's a
propositional landscape which we've
actually modeled pretty well now I would
say with large language models but
outside of that there's an imagistic
aesthetic and dreamlike Landscape that's
the landscape of the imagination and
outside of that is the embodied
procedural realm right and a full event
covers all three of those domains you
can't you can't assume that the
propositional alone is going to carry it
and I think it's partly because the
propositional is easier in some ways it
has flaws and it's easier to it's easier
to DeMent it and and capture it than it
is to capture the imagination and and
the procedural landscape anyways if if
you flesh it out with those additional
sources it's also a much richer
experience for the people that are
involved so that's it's more it's more
engaging it's more fun and that's not
trivial if the fun isn't you know that
short-term hedonic immediate
gratification that we were describing
earlier if it's allied with something
like upward striving it's much more
profound and and impactful occurrence
and integrated and more human and more
holistic because what you're calling a
propositional
uh I might call uh you know features of
the Enlightenment of the rational of the
logic of The Logical of the analytical
uh whereas uh we have sort of lateral to
that but no less important narrative and
art and creativity and uh by sort of
moving between these two spaces we have
the opportunity for discovery that we
may not have in either place yeah and
also the what you're calling the
propositional what I think of is sort of
the you know the fruits of the
Enlightenment um are are easily made
into reductionist tenants uh that then
become metrics that are quantifiable and
numbers are necessary and important for
us to understand our world but they are
not sufficient and they can be made to
seem sufficient and that's one of the
lessons I think of covid um and frankly
to some degree of this political moment
we're living in too that uh you throw
enough uh these are the numbers don't
worry about it I'm the expert just trust
me at people and many of them kind of go
okay yeah I'm just I'm just not educated
enough to understand that you've got the
numbers you're the expert we'll go with
that well it's also possibly the case
that that also accounts for maybe why
the democratic tradition or the
Republican tradition works you know is
because intellectuals are propositional
experts but that doesn't make them wise
and wisdom I suspect has something to do
with the alignment between the
propositional and the imagistic and the
proceed
so it's an embodied it's an embodied uh
quality and it's a quality of the
imagination there's there's no shortage
of people who aren't educated and who
aren't very articulate who can still
tell the difference between right and
wrong and they can do it pretty uniring
I mean dogs can do that to some degree
right I mean they they're not so bad at
sniffing out pathological character but
they can't
propositionalization and determining
what's a threat and what's not and
so my point is there are other forms of
intelligence that aren't propositional
and and it's it's very easy for those
who have the advantage in the
propositional space to assume that
they're
Superior in terms of their grip on on
knowledge even outside their specialized
domains but that they're also wiser and
more moral and there's no correlation
between cognitive ability and
conscientiousness zero there's no
correlation
between intelligence in intelligence
looks like it's orthogonal to all the
personality traits and so it's a funny
thing a that there's no relationship
between General cognitive ability and
wisdom or morality so if you're really
smart you can go bad very badly very
very badly well I wonder I wonder if
that's going to hold up actually there
are reasons to imagine that you might
start seeing a correlation
between intelligence the fly and the
ointment being how good are you at
actually measuring that we have proxies
for measuring Your Capacity to succeed
but to succeed in an aoral system maybe
it's not such a good proxy for
intelligence but um back to the earlier
point I want to point to something that
Tom stoer said about uh about
humor he said laughter is the sound of
comprehension and right that's good my
point would
be that the
comedians this will become less and less
true the more they leverage AI to figure
out what people will laugh at it will
become a
self-referential land of nonsense but
for the moment while AI is decidedly not
funny and it's really terrible at being
funny so far um the
comedian is traversing a an edge between
what we are conscious of and what we are
barely conscious of and when the
comedian delivers a joke that causes the
room to erupt in laughter the comedian
has found something that everybody in
the room is aware of but they are not
aware that everybody else is aware of it
and so the room comes to understand
itself as of like mind all at once right
that's an extremely powerful very an
property often of like mind about
something forbidden I think of that as
that's often the translation of the
procedural or imagistic into the
explicit because that's the comedian
gives words they gives words to
Something in coate it's like it's it's
already it's it's captured in the
relationship between the ideas that
already exists right and then the
comedian puts his finger on it just like
someone who coins a word does you know
all of a sudden words pop up and we need
them and they spread like mad because
they've specified something that was a
gap in our propositionalization
and everyone recognizes it it's implicit
yeah and it's funny too a because and
this is a strange thing is that it isn't
obvious at all that that SP that
capacity for spontaneous laughter can be
gamed you know I mean you can get are
there cruel forms of laughter there are
but but it's such an unconscious
response right it's pre it's you laugh
despite yourself often yeah you
certainly laugh before you think about
whether you should laugh so there's
something if you think about whether you
should laugh then you will commit a
humor sin which is laughing at the wrong
moment it's interesting that there's a
cost to laughing when the punch line
hasn't been delivered or after you know
everybody else is laughing and it's like
you're trying to cover the fact that
you're really not you're not one of us
yeah that inappropriate laughter has
been has been pointed out as like that's
one of the things that comes up as a
critique of camela Harris consistently
right is For Better or For Worse she's T
um with the brush of inappropriate
laughter and you're you're pointing out
that that's the gaming of something
that's an evolutionarily design marker
of of something like cognitive Integrity
laughter itself has been gained and I
would say that actually one of the most
troubling inventions that human beings
have devised this is going to sound
posterous but one of the most laugh
track yeah no kidding e and the idea
that you can be induced to believe that
something was humorous that you did not
find humorous on your own actually
starts leading the population in the
direction of believing things very
deeply that they would never have
accepted in the first place so it may be
used just to sell you know deodorant and
cereal on some trivial sitcom but the
capacity to induce humans to come to
conclusions they wouldn't otherwise
reach by making it sound as if they are
in a room full of people laughing in
agreement that's a very troubling thing
right right right hether to go back to
your your quote from stoer the brilliant
Tom stoer laughter is the sound of
comprehension is that it um I
think I agree um but I think in your
telling of the story of what happens as
comedians talk um actually
um conflates to things both of which are
important and we've been talking about
the individual coming to Consciousness
The Comedian says something in the
individual brain they go oh I didn't
know that was subconscious until now and
now it's explicit now it's conscious I
didn't know um but there silly me silly
me or oh God they can he can see that or
you know whatever it is um but then
there's also the population level and
you you alluded to this and what you
said but I think it's no less important
may be exactly what you know a rally for
instance is meant to do and exactly what
we need right now and you know I'm sure
you experienced this Jordan we certainly
experienced this where um people will
come up to us and say you know thank you
for saying the things that you say I
don't feel alone I you know I don't I I
I don't I didn't know or that I couldn't
say I couldn't say I I didn't I I I had
come to understand this but I thought I
was the only one in the universe yeah
and so you taking it back to um comedy
uh in a group of anonymous people a
large group of anonymous people if
everyone laughs at the same moment not
only did that maybe bring yourself to
consciousness of that thing at that
moment or maybe you already knew it but
if everyone laughs you know I I am not
alone I I am in sync we are synchronized
we are seeing the same things the lens
through even with regard to the
Unspeakable even with regard to the
Unspeakable
and so right away that gives you a a
momentum and an opportunity for Action
that maybe you did not know was possible
before uh so I think that's an addition
additional the individual and the
population are not the same oh
absolutely and um I think comedy
potentially activates both yeah it's the
power it's the power of the room or the
population that comes to understand
itself as aligned and I would point out
it's a little harder to describe this
with respect to music and would say
music has
been radically distorted by technology
beginning at the player piano but the
ability to listen to music and have it
be the same no matter how many times you
play it is a very unnatural way for
music to exist music used to be a living
entity even uh you know a tribe that was
singing the same song that had been sung
a thousand times it was different every
single time and it was therefore capable
of adapting to the changing mood of the
people who were who were participating
in it um so what we moderns who are
drenched in music all the time we don't
even notice it sometimes it's
soundtracking some story we're watching
and we're not thinking about the fact
that there's music but what we miss
being so thoroughly surrounded by music
is the incredibly powerful and rarified
experience when the band or whatever it
is the musician or the band is actually
in some Indescribable
way tied into the audience and the room
is electric and every is synced and
everybody is feeling a powerful emotion
and it they know they are feeling it
together right they are being stimulated
by the same thing and they are feeling
the same way and even if you record that
thing and you play it for somebody and
you say look at how great this was they
don't get the same feeling of discovery
that that room had and it's it's like
the comedy and it's it's important and
it's part of why rescue the Republic is
structured around you know yes the
propositional it has to be there we have
to articulate what it is that we fear
and what it is that we hope um but
comedy and music are much deeper
mechanisms of conveying the sense of
unity which is really what this is about
it's not a political rally this is about
the unity movement discovering that
actually we value Western Civilization
we fear that it is coming apart and we
are going to put our differences aside
in order to participate in protecting it
from what threatens it and putting it
back on the course that was that we were
set upon by the founding fathers
[Music]